# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Moderator)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Moderator)

Quorum requires participation of 9 or more of the 16 voting members (including the officers).

| First Name | Last Name  | Company                                                     | Role(s)                    | Present |
|:-----------|:-----------|:------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------|:--------|
| Adrian     | Diglio     | Microsoft                                                   | Voting Member              | No      |
| Altaz      | Valani     | Individual                                                  | Member                     | No      |
| Anthony    | Rutkowski  | Individual                                                  | Observer                   | No      | 
| Ashish     | Sarda      | Cisco Systems                                               | Member                     | No      |
| Denny      | Page       | Individual                                                  | Voting Member              | Yes     |
| Duncan     | Sparrell   | sFractal Consulting LLC                                     | Voting Member              | Yes     |
| Feng       | Cao        | Oracle                                                      | Member                     | Yes     |
| Hardin     | Sarda      | Cisco Systems                                               | Member.                    | Yes     |
| Jay        | White      | Microsoft                                                   | Voting Member              | Yes     |
| Jeremy     | Rickard    | Microsoft                                                   | Voting Member              | No      |
| Justin     | Murphy     | DHS Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) | Co-Chair                   | No      |
| Kris       | Vandecruys | Cisco Systems                                               | Voting Member              | No      |
| Kunal      | Modasiya   | Qualys, Inc.                                                | Member                     | No      |
| Langley    | Rock       | Dell                                                        | Voting Member              | Yes     |
| Martin     | Prpic      | Red Hat                                                     | Voting Member              | Yes     |
| Mike       | Fraser     | Sophos Ltd                                                  | Inactive Member            | No      |
| Omar       | Santos     | Cisco Systems                                               | Co-Chair                   | No      |
| Pablo      | Quiroga    | Qualys, Inc.                                                | Member                     | Yes     |
| Peter      | Gephardt   | IBM                                                         | Member                     | No      |
| Przemyslaw | Roguski    | Red Hat                                                     | Voting Member              | No      |
| Shridhar   | Chari      | Cisco Systems                                               | Voting Member              | No      |
| Sonny      | van Lingen | Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.                               | Voting Member              | Yes     |
| Stefan     | Arntzen    | Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.                               | Member                     | Yes     |
| Stefan     | Hagen      | Individual                                                  | Secretary, taking notes ðŸŽ¶ | Yes     |
| Thomas     | Proell     | Siemens                                                     | Member                     | No      |
| Thomas     | Schaffer   | Cisco Systems                                               | Voting Member              | Yes     |
| Thomas     | Schmidt    | Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) Germany       | Voting Member              | Yes     |
| Tobias     | Limmer     | Siemens                                                     | Member                     | Yes     |

Quorum reached (9 voting members present)

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Moderator)

Thomas Schmidt chaired the meeting as both Co-Chairs were unavailable 

## 1.4 Approval of agenda

* Roll Call
* Updates:
  * Discussion on various term use across the industry
* Approval of previous meeting minutes (motions carried out per e-mail motions)
* Discussion
* Next steps

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Moderator)

None (motions carried out already per e-mail motions).

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Secretary to report the intended Member Role of Peter Gephardt together with participation list to TC administration
  * COMPLETE

## 1.7 Identification of TC voting members (Secretary)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Thomas Schmidt had requested leave of absence from February 21, 2024 to April 7, 2024
  * Roster still shows this state, secretary to follow-up with administration to fix 
    * COMPLETED before the meeting 

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Secretary)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Wednesday at 09:00 PDT / 12:00 EDT / 18:00 CEST / **16:00** UTC for 1 hour)
 
    ```
    June 19, 2024
    July 17, 2024
    August 21, 2024
    September 18, 2024
    October 16, 2024 (daylight saving times still active)
    November 29, 2024 (normal time switch back done, same time on wall clock)
    December 18, 2024
    ```

# 3. Discussion

* Workspace at OASIS still not completely usable, but all OpenEOX TC meetings of 2024 are already scheduled and available.
* All discuss the various term use across the industry
* Feng provided the different levels for support in use at Oracle at 
  https://www.oracle.com/support/lifetime-support/software.html
    * Premier, Extended, and Sustaining Support with a feature matrix on the page below
* Martin: What we need is a schema on how you'd think the above should be represented in a machine-readable format;
          every vendor has their own page just like that one
* All discuss exchanging arguments from supplier and consumer perspective (Pablo and Duncan respectively)
* Thomas explains the still open tasks for the draft pull request for the schema proposals
  * Discussion needed
  * Define the interface for other standard formats (like CSAF or Open VEX) to optimally attach to the OpenEOX schema (#10)
* All continue discussion on #10
* Thomas asks for members to speak up and provide other samples of such policies and use cases
* Langley suggests to use specific documents to try scenarios
* Stefan Hagen seconds that to iterate json, schema and use cases
* Duncan has a use case where he wants to know when no more security patches will come in so he could replace the tool present
  * Where to put that in the schema?
* Thomas Schmidt suggests to create a folder in the GitHub TC repo where short text snippets of such use cases are provided
  * next the other members can compare to the other use cases and try to find places in the schema where to place that best
  * maybe give the markdown document a good name to make the use case clear
* All continue discussion
* Duncan highlights the difference of informational needs for consumers versus those of suppliers
* Pablo expects that we should formulate the use cases with Personas which we then will have to combine and harmonize
* Pablo perceives the last months as the TC repeating discussions and suggests to be pragmatic about use cases
* Feng sees use case collection as primary goal before producing the schema 
* ACTION on every member to add their use cases to the TC repository inside the folder
  https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openeox/tree/main/value-scenarios/contributor-scenarios within organisation folders
  (example is the already present sFractal fodler from Duncan) for everyone then to inspect, compare, and eventually 
  derive proposals for general use cases / value scenarios.
  * Use pull requests to add these contributions.
## 3.1 GitHub Issues for Discussion

* Covered in general discussion

## 3.2 Review pending Pull Requests

* Covered in general discussion

## 3.3 Next steps

* Everyone to provide use cases per pull requests in simple markdown files

# 4. Other Business

None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary)

None

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary)

* ACTION on every member to add their use cases to the TC repository inside the folder
  https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openeox/tree/main/value-scenarios/contributor-scenarios within organisation folders 
  per pull requests.

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  June 19, 2024 09:00 PDT / 12:00 EDT / 18:00 CEST / 16:00 UTC for 1 hour
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
